This is a repository for object-oriented classlibrary samples. Only the structure
of a library is made public. The source code remains proprietary. We appreciate 
any contribution that you could make to this benchmark base. Please contact us
through the coordinates given below.


What is this about ?
--------------------

In order to calculate the amount of space that dispatch tables take up in 
an object-oriented application, one needs to have the names of all classes,
the inheritance graph, and, for each class, the names of all the messages that
the particular class defines. This gives enough information to build up the
necessary datastructures. We have done this for a number of message dispatch
techniques in order to compare their space overhead in [Dri95]. This repository 
gathers self-contained classlibraries from as many oo-languages/models/systems 
as possible. No source code is included in any of the samples, so if you send us
a sample based on a proprietary library, you are not giving away information that
is worth anything in industry.

We also try to get the names of defined instance variables, because this may be
important for future experiments. Most samples currently lack that information, 
however. In some, like SELF, there is no distinction and accessor messages for
instance variables are listed with the other messages.

There may be other uses for this information, such as object metrics, class 
hierarchy analysis, you name it. Everyone is hereby invited to use this 
information in as many ways as possible. Just refer to this base in any papers
in which you use them.


What is the format of the samples ?
-----------------------------------

All samples are ascii-files (for portability), containing some information about
the sample, the programming language, a contact adress (of the person that provided 
the sample), some numbers of the sample, all preceded by a colon. Then comes the sample 
itself, in the format described below:

; this is just a template of an example
; from no language in particular
; by Karel Driesen, karel@cs.ucsb.edu
; it has more than 2 classes and a bunch of message selectors

(
( <classname1>
  ( <baseclass1> .. <baseclassn> )
  ( <instvar1> .. <instvarn> )
  ( <messagename1> .. <messagenamen> )
)

..

( <classnamen>
  ( <baseclass1> .. <baseclassn> )
  ( <instvar1> .. <instvarn> )
  ( <messagename1> .. <messagenamen> )
)
)


So, in scheme-parlance, we have a list of classes, each of which is a list of four elements:
- a classname
- a list of baseclasses (or superclasses), which can have 0 (for root classes), 
  1 (for single inheritance libraries), or more (multiple inheritance) elements.
- a list of instance variable names
- a list of messagenames, *defined* in the class. Usually this is not empty.


Isn't it easier to make up my own samples ?
-------------------------------------------

No. Although it is easy to build a quick and dirty random classlibrary generator,
it is very hard to make it generate samples that bear more than a superficial
resemblance to what is really out there in the field. If one would build such a 
generator, one would need to compare it with as many real samples as possible to
guarantee that it generates the right stuff, so even then this base would be useful.

The only situation in which even a naive generator can be adequate, is in stress-testing 
your algorithms for speed or memory requirements. For instance, classlibraries in which 
every class inherits from 10 other classes are hard to find. A generator can give you 
such a library.

I am BTW willing to include any such generators in this base, because even non-representative
data can be used for comparing techniques, as long as it is public. 

That is the second reason why making up your own samples is rather stupid: anyone
who wants to compare two techniques has to implement them all over again. If you 
have a technique that takes a lot of implementation effort, others will not compare
to you unless you publish tests on publicly available data. If you want to get out of
obscurity, use public data for your tests. Otherwise you risk being ignored.


Hey, SELF doesn't have classes ! What are you trying to sell me here ?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Some languages do not have a class concept. However, for efficiency reasons, behavior
is almost always shared between individual objects. To give each object a copy of 
the message code for all messages it understands may be simple, but wastes a lot
of space. In SELF, shared behavior is implemented through "maps", which are invisible
to a programmer and effectively correspond to Smalltalk classes. They are not as chiselled
in stone as Smalltalk classes, however.

This shared behavior is also inherited. An incremental change to one or more classes
gives a new class with extra behavior. Even if delegation is used in a language, this can
usually be modelled with classes and inheritance, and for a message dispatch implementation
would make little difference. This is mostly because the common case is that the target of
delegations doesn't change dynamically.

So even though a OO-language can lack the concept of a class and of inheritance, 
something will usually take its place in such a way as can be represented (we hope)
by our format.


How can I contribute to this neat idea ?
----------------------------------------

If you have a classlibrary that is not already in the base, that is self-contained
(i.e. it constitutes a complete program), and that shares at most half of its 
classes with other samples in the base, then you can send this in the format described 
above to me. I will test it, possibly adjust the format and make the sample public.

Sometimes it is also necessary to convert special characters (like "'", "," , "(")
into strings. When I do this, I first search the whole sample for the replacement
string (for instance "quote", "comma" or "leftbracket"). If it is not there, I replace
all instances of the character with this string. This operation does not disturb the 
inheritance structure.


Who do I send it to ?
---------------------

Karel Driesen 
Department of Computer Science
RSL-lab 2122 Engineering I
University of California
Santa Barbara, CA 93106

tel(lab):  (1-805) 893-4394
fax(lab):  (1-805) 893-8553

email: karel@cs.ucsb.edu
www: http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~karel

